[DCP221972] Added page for Profiles migration (#2226)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: user-guide/Advanced_Functionality/Databases/Indexing_database/Elasticsearch/storage_per_DMA/Profile_migration_to_elastic.md

![SLNetClientTest tool](~/user-guide/images/ClientTestToolMigrationUI_ProfileMigration.jpg)<br>
*Migration window in SLNetClientTest tool (version 10.4.2)*

> [!WARNING]
>
> - Always be extremely careful when using this tool, as it can have far-reaching consequences on the functionality of your DataMiner System.
> - All Profile Manager instances in the cluster will keep working during the migration. But any creates/updates done during the migration will no longer be migrated.
> - After migration the storage type will still be XML, to switch to indexing database storage, press the *Start using Elastic* button.

1. Connect to the DMS using the *SLNetClientTest* tool:

    1. In the *SLNetClientTest* tool, go to *Connection* > *Connect*.
    1. In the *Connect* window, under *Authentication*, select *Explicit credentials* and specify the credentials of an administrator user.
    1. Click the *Connect* button.

1. In the *Advanced* menu, select *Migration*.

1. In the *ProfileManger XML to Elastic* section, click the *Start Migration* button to start the migration wizard.

>    During the migrations, the Profile Manager is not stopped, so it will keep working as expected. This also means a snapshot of the Profiles.xml is migrated. Any creates/updates done during the migration will no longer be migrated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   During the migrations, the ProfileManager is not stopped, so it will keep working as expected. This also means a snapshot of the Profiles.xml is migrated. Any creates/updates done during the migration will no longer be migrated.
```

1. A window will show the migration actions that have been scheduled. If you close this window, the migration will continue in the background. To cancel the migration, click the *Cancel Migration* button.

   - The progress of the scheduled actions will be shown in the *MigrationStatus* table in SLNetClientTest tool, where a row will be created for the migration of profiles. These rows will be updated to reflect the progress of the migration.

>    - While the migration is in progress, a notice will be added in the Alarm Console. Once the migration is completed, the notice will be cleared and an information event will be generated, stating that the migration has finished.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we do this for ProfileManager, since the manager is not down during the migration

   - All profiles will be loaded from the *Profiles.xml* file on the DataMiner Agent where the migration was triggered. The *Profiles.xml* files of the other DataMiner Agents in the cluster are not migrated. This is not necessary, as the *Profiles.xml* file is synced in the cluster.

   - The profiles objects will be written to the indexing database.

>    - When the migration for profiles is completed, the configuration will not switch to indexing database storage. To switch to indexing database storage, press the *Start using Elastic* button.

Reviewer 2: As mentioned above, there might not be a config yet, in which case you first need to click the *Create Configuration* button

> [!NOTE]
>
> - The migration should not take more than a few minutes. During testing, migrating a *Profiles.xml* file of 100 MB in a system with a local Elasticsearch database took about 1 minute.
> - You can cancel the migration process by clicking the *Cancel Migration* button in the *ProfileManager XML to Elastic* section.

### Troubleshooting

> If the migration should fail for any reason, the migration status object in the SLNetClientTest tool window will get a red background color. The ``SLMigrationManager.txt`` and ``SLProfileManager.txt`` log files will contain more information.

Reviewer 2: We might need to double-check the red background works for the profiles migration, we implemented this for the resource migration (but I suspect the implementation was generic enough to work for profiles migration as well).

If a ``MigrationStatus`` is stuck in the ``InProgress`` state, you will need to cancel the migration and trigger the migration again. You can do so with the *Cancel Migration* button in the *ProfileManger XML to Elastic* section of the SLNetClientTest tool window.

### Behavior in new installations

> When a new DataMiner Agent is installed, the used storage type will depend on when Profile Manager starts up for the first time.

Reviewer: To check if it is ProfileManager of Profile manager

Reviewer 3: Pretty sure it is 'Profile Manager', just like 'Resource Manager' is used on the similar page: https://docs.dataminer.services/user-guide/Advanced_Functionality/Databases/Indexing_database/Elasticsearch/storage_per_DMA/Resource_migration_to_elastic.html?q=resource%20manager%20migration

- If DataMiner is installed with the 10.0 installer and Profile Manager is used, XML storage will be used. An indexing database is not yet supported as a storage type for profiles in DataMiner 10.0. After you have upgraded this DataMiner Agent to DataMiner 10.0.8 or later, it will continue to use XML storage until you trigger the migration.

- If DataMiner is installed on version 10.4.0 and Profile Manager is used, indexing database storage will be used. This means profiles will only be functional on a DataMiner System that has indexing database storage running.

- When you add a new DataMiner Agent to an existing cluster, the same behavior applies as mentioned above.

## Checking the storage type used by a DataMiner Agent

If you want to know which storage type a DataMiner Agent is currently using, open the migration window as detailed under [Migrating from XML to the indexing database](#migrating-from-xml-to-the-indexing-database).

The current storage type is displayed in the *ProfileManger XML to Elastic* section, under the *Cancel Migration* button stating "Currently using ..." .

## Limitations and differences with XML storage

> ### Difference when deleting profiles

Reviewer 2: You can delete this difference, profiles objects never had a restriction for deletes (not on Xml or on Elastic storage)

When XML storage is used, it is not possible to remove a profile when one of the DataMiner Agents in the cluster cannot be reached, as this could cause syncing issues. No such restrictions apply when indexing database storage is used.

### Field size

Field names in the indexing database have a maximum length of 32766 bytes, which means any field of a profile indexed in the database can only contain 32766 bytes. This limit is mostly important for string fields, which can contain 32766 characters of one byte (or 16383 characters of two bytes).

> [!NOTE]

> > If there is an attempt to save a profile with a field that is too big, the API will return an ``UnknownError``. The ``SLProfileManager.txt`` log file will contain the actual exception, which will mention the field that could not be indexed in the database.

Reviewer 2: We should probably test if 'UnknownError' this is the case for Profiles as well. I think it will be reason 'Unknown' (from the 'ManagerStoreError.Reason').

> [!TIP]
> If you are looking for information on how to migrate an SRM configuration from one DMA to another, see [Migrating an SRM configuration](xref:SRM_migrating).

> [!NOTE]
>
> - XML storage is no longer supported from DataMiner 10.4.0 onwards. Upgrading to 10.4.0 will not be possible if the profile data is still stored in XML.
> - Elasticsearch is only supported up to version 6.8. If you are using Elasticsearch as the indexing database, we therefore recommend using [Storage as a Service](xref:STaaS) instead.

## Migrating from XML to the indexing database

> To migrate the profiles, you will need to use the SLNetClientTest tool.

Reviewer 4: On the page about resources migration, it says that this is also supported for an OpenSearch database. Is OpenSearch not supported for the profiles migration?

Author: Based off documentation [Software_support_life_cycles](https://docs.dataminer.services/user-guide/Reference/Software_support_life_cycles.html#third-party-software-support-life-cycle), we didn't reference OpenSearch

Reviewer 4: Possibly this is based on a misinterpretation then, because that page states "Note that using a self-hosted OpenSearch database remains supported." We continue to support OpenSearch as an alternative for users who do not want to use STaaS.

### Troubleshooting

If the migration should fail for any reason, the migration status object in the SLNetClientTest tool window will get a red background color. The ``SLMigrationManager.txt`` and ``SLProfileManager.txt`` log files will contain more information.

If a ``MigrationStatus`` is stuck in the ``InProgress`` state, you will need to cancel the migration and trigger the migration again. You can do so with the *Cancel Migration* button in the *ProfileManger XML to Elastic* section of the SLNetClientTest tool window.

### Behavior in new installations

When a new DataMiner Agent is installed, the used storage type will depend on when Profile Manager starts up for the first time.

- If DataMiner is installed with the 10.0 installer and Profile Manager is used, XML storage will be used. An indexing database is not yet supported as a storage type for profiles in DataMiner 10.0. After you have upgraded this DataMiner Agent to DataMiner 10.0.8 or later, it will continue to use XML storage until you trigger the migration.

> - If DataMiner is installed on version 10.4.0 and Profile Manager is used, indexing database storage will be used. This means profiles will only be functional on a DataMiner System that has indexing database storage running.

Reviewer 4: Do you mean if DataMiner is installed with the 10.4 installer (which is currently not yet available)? Or do you mean if it is installed with the 10.2 installer and upgraded to 10.4 before Profile Manager is first started? Or both?

Author: Yes both

---
uid: Profile_migration_to_elastic
---

# Migrating SRM profiles to the indexing database

> Starting from DataMiner version 10.1.0/10.0.8, you can migrate the profiles from the *Profiles.xml* file to the indexing database. This improves the scalability and performance on systems that have a large number of profiles.

Author: Yes this is based on the RN I found on when the migration functionality was introduced [RN25758](https://intranet.skyline.be/DataMiner/Lists/Release%20Notes/DispForm.aspx?ID=25758)

1. Connect to the DMS using the *SLNetClientTest* tool:

    1. In the *SLNetClientTest* tool, go to *Connection* > *Connect*.
    1. In the *Connect* window, under *Authentication*, select *Explicit credentials* and specify the credentials of an administrator user.
    1. Click the *Connect* button.

1. In the *Advanced* menu, select *Migration*.

1. In the *ProfileManger XML to Elastic* section, click the *Start Migration* button to start the migration wizard.

   During the migrations, the Profile Manager is not stopped, so it will keep working as expected. This also means a snapshot of the Profiles.xml is migrated. Any creates/updates done during the migration will no longer be migrated.

1. A window will show the migration actions that have been scheduled. If you close this window, the migration will continue in the background. To cancel the migration, click the *Cancel Migration* button.

>    - The progress of the scheduled actions will be shown in the *MigrationStatus* table in SLNetClientTest tool, where a row will be created for the migration of profiles. These rows will be updated to reflect the progress of the migration.

Reviewer 5: "where a row will be created for the migration of profiles". This seems to imply one row will be added? In practice, there are 3 rows. Or maybe I don't understand it completely.

> [!NOTE]
>
> - The migration should not take more than a few minutes. During testing, migrating a *Profiles.xml* file of 100 MB in a system with a local Elasticsearch database took about 1 minute.
> - You can cancel the migration process by clicking the *Cancel Migration* button in the *ProfileManager XML to Elastic* section.

### Troubleshooting

If the migration should fail for any reason, the migration status object in the SLNetClientTest tool window will get a red background color. The ``SLMigrationManager.txt`` and ``SLProfileManager.txt`` log files will contain more information.

If a ``MigrationStatus`` is stuck in the ``InProgress`` state, you will need to cancel the migration and trigger the migration again. You can do so with the *Cancel Migration* button in the *ProfileManger XML to Elastic* section of the SLNetClientTest tool window.

### Behavior in new installations

When a new DataMiner Agent is installed, the used storage type will depend on when Profile Manager starts up for the first time.

> - If DataMiner is installed with the 10.0 installer and Profile Manager is used, XML storage will be used. An indexing database is not yet supported as a storage type for profiles in DataMiner 10.0. After you have upgraded this DataMiner Agent to DataMiner 10.0.8 or later, it will continue to use XML storage until you trigger the migration.

Reviewer 5: There also is a 10.2 installer, I guess it will then also use xml?
